**Racial Justice Act via NorCal ACLU: Prosecutorial Data**

The Racial Justice Act was enacted in 2020 by the California state, in which the State is prohibited from seeking convictions/sentences against someone based upon their national origin, ethnicity, or race. In order to keep the state accountable, the public needs access to prosecutorial data — however, counties often make that data inaccessible. As such, the ACLU partnered with BraunHagey & Borden LLP to gain access to these kinds of data, which can be searched for by county, document type, relevant date, and keywords. The ACLU obtains this data by probing counties for their records via public records requests, which introduces possible censoring issues, as some records could be withheld by the county and omitted from the data.

My advisor, Josh Grossman, was in touch with Jason Tsui from the Center for Policing Equity (CPE), who has already begun to process the data for Orange County from the original ACLU data. As such, he passed along the pre-processed data specifically for Orange County from 2021-2023, in which he added cleaned forms of existing columns as his preprocessing, and has documented his changes in a spreadsheet that I have access to. 

The dataset has 139,885 records with 29 columns, including relevant dates for disposition, referral, filing and sentencing, as well as the defendant’s face, charge description, special circumstances, disposition description, outcome, etc. Although the dataset was cleaned by this outside party, I have permission to utilize their dataset in my project.

**Racial and Identity Profiling Act (RIPA) Dataset: Policing Data**

In 2015, the California State Legislature passed AB 955: the Racial and Identity Profiling Act (RIPA). As part of the bill, each state and local agency is required to report all stop incident data to the Attorney General on an annual basis, which is then published through the OpenJustice data portal. Data includes person-level and stop-level information, with agencies with 1000+ peace officers releasing their first reports by April 2019. The State of California Department of Justice owns the data.

The Read Me document that comes with each dataset includes specific data characteristics and known limitations of the dataset, as well as all of the columns, descriptions, and values in the data. The agency name is a column, allowing me to choose only data from Orange County (or any other chosen county) to match my county-level prosecutorial data. Each record contains information such as a unique DOJ record ID, the date of the stop, perceived race or ethnicity of the person stopped by the peace officer, reasonable suspicions, stops and actions taken, contraband or property seized, and results of the stop, among other variables, although there are a lot of missing values for certain columns. Given that the race of individuals is based upon the officer’s perception, there is significant possible bias in the data, as the race won’t necessarily be correct. Additionally, there’s no way to confirm if these are all of the reports from each agency, and whether all of the details from each record are correct or contain all of the relevant information.
